=head1 NAME

smokeping - Commandline tool for SmokePing

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<smokeping> [ B<--email> | B<--makepod> | B<--version> | B<--restart> ]

 Options:

 --email    Send SmokePing Agents to all Targets marked DYNAMIC
 --makepod  Create POD documentation on Config file
 --version  Show SmokePing Version
 --debug    Run Only once and do not Fork
 --restart  Restart SmokePing
 --nodemon  Do no demonize the process (no fork)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<smokeping> tool is the commandline part of the SmokePing system. Its
main function is to run as a daemon and send Pings to all the Targets you
have specified in the Config file. When you call B<smokeping> without
arguments it will start as a daemon and do it's work.

If called with an argument, then further functions can be activated, as seen
in the Synopsis above. The B<--email> function is explained in the
documentation on the config file.

The B<--makepod> does get used internally to produce the documentation on
the SmokePing configuration file.

Please refer to the installation document for detailed setup instructions.

=head1 SETUP

When installing SmokePing, this file has to be adjusted to fit your
local system. Three paths have to be entered.

 use lib qw(/usr/pack/rrdtool-1.0.33-to/lib/perl);

One pointing to your B<rrdtool> installation

 use lib qw(/home/oetiker/public_html/smokeping/lib);

One pointing to the place where you have installed the SmokePing libraries

 use Smokeping;

 Smokeping::main("/home/oetiker/.smokeping/config");

The third path is the argument to the Smokeping::main command. It points to
the SmokePing configuration file.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2001 by Tobias Oetiker. All right reserved.

=head1 LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it
and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be
useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
License along with this program; if not, write to the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA
02139, USA.

=head1 AUTHOR

Tobias Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt>

=cut
