=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::AnotherDNS - Alternate DNS Probe

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +AnotherDNS

 forks = 5
 offset = 50%
 step = 300

 # The following variables can be overridden in each target section
 lookup = www.example.org
 mininterval = 0.5
 pings = 5
 port = 53
 recordtype = A
 require_answers = 0
 require_noerror = 0
 timeout = 5

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = AnotherDNS # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = AnotherDNS # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host
 lookup = www.example.org
 mininterval = 0.5
 pings = 5
 port = 53
 recordtype = A
 require_answers = 0
 require_noerror = 0
 timeout = 5

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Like DNS, but uses Net::DNS and Time::HiRes instead of dig. This probe does
*not* retry the request three times before it is considerd "lost", like dig and
other resolver do by default. If operating as caching Nameserver, BIND (and
maybe others) expect clients to retry the request if the answer is not in the
cache. So, ask the nameserver for something that he is authoritative for if you
want measure the network packet loss correctly. 

If you have a really fast network and nameserver, you will notice that this
probe reports the query time in microsecond resolution. :-)

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item forks

Run this many concurrent processes at maximum

Example value: 5

Default value: 5

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=back

Supported target-specific variables:

=over

=item lookup

Name of the host to look up in the dns.

Example value: www.example.org

=item mininterval

Minimum time between sending two lookup queries in (possibly fractional) seconds.

Default value: 0.5

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 5

=item port

The UDP Port to use.

Default value: 53

=item recordtype

Record type to look up.

Default value: A

=item require_answers

Only Count Answers with answer count >= this value.

Default value: 0

=item require_noerror

Only Count Answers with Response Status NOERROR.

Default value: 0

=item timeout

Timeout for a single request in seconds.

Default value: 5

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Christoph Heine <Christoph.Heine@HaDiKo.DE>

=cut