=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::AnotherSSH - Another SSH probe

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +AnotherSSH

 forks = 5
 offset = 50%
 step = 300

 # The following variables can be overridden in each target section
 greeting = SSH-Latency-Measurement-Sorry-for-this-logmessage
 interval = established
 mininterval = 0.5
 pings = 5
 port = 22
 timeout = 5

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = AnotherSSH # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = AnotherSSH # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host
 greeting = SSH-Latency-Measurement-Sorry-for-this-logmessage
 interval = established
 mininterval = 0.5
 pings = 5
 port = 22
 timeout = 5

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Latency measurement using SSH. This generates Logfile messages on the other 
Host, so get permission from the owner first! 

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item forks

Run this many concurrent processes at maximum

Example value: 5

Default value: 5

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=back

Supported target-specific variables:

=over

=item greeting

Greeting string to send to the SSH Server. This will appear in the Logfile. 
Use this to make clear, who you are and what you are doing to avoid confusion.

Also, don't use something that is a valid version string. This probe assumes
that the connection gets terminated because of protocol mismatch.

Default value: SSH-Latency-Measurement-Sorry-for-this-logmessage

=item interval

The interval to be measured. One of:

=over

=item connect

Interval between connect() and the greeting string from the host.

=item established

Interval between our greeting message and the end of the connection 
because of Protocol mismatch. This is the default.

=item complete

From connect() to the end of the connection.

=back


Default value: established

=item mininterval

Minimum interval between the start of two connection attempts in (possibly fractional) seconds.

Default value: 0.5

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 5

=item port

Connect to this port.

Default value: 22

=item timeout

Timeout for the connection.

Default value: 5

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Christoph Heine <Christoph.Heine@HaDiKo.DE>

=cut