=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::basevars - Another Base Class for implementing SmokePing Probes

=head1 OVERVIEW

Like L<Smokeping::probes::base|Smokeping::probes::base>, but supports host-specific variables for the probe.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +basevars

 offset = 50%
 pings = 20
 step = 300

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = basevars # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = basevars # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Provides the method `targets' that returns a list of hashes.
The hashes contain the entries:

=over

=item addr

The address of the target.

=item vars 

A hash containing variables defined in the corresponding
config section.

=item tree 

The unique index that `probe::base' uses for targets.

There's also the method 'vars' that returns the abovementioned
hash corresponding to the 'tree' index parameter.

=back

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 20

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Niko Tyni <ntyni@iki.fi>

=head1 BUGS

Uses `Smokeping::probes::base' internals too much to be a derived class, but 
I didn't want to touch the base class directly.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Smokeping::probes::base>, L<Smokeping::probes::EchoPing>

=cut