=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::EchoPing - an echoping(1) probe for SmokePing

=head1 OVERVIEW

Measures TCP or UDP echo (port 7) roundtrip times for SmokePing. Can also be 
used as a base class for other echoping(1) probes.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +EchoPing

 binary = /usr/bin/echoping
 forks = 5
 offset = 50%
 step = 300

 # The following variables can be overridden in each target section
 extraopts = -some-letter-the-author-did-not-think-of
 fill = A
 ipversion = 4
 pings = 5
 priority = 6
 size = 510
 timeout = 1
 tos = 0xa0
 udp = no
 waittime = 1

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = EchoPing # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = EchoPing # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host
 extraopts = -some-letter-the-author-did-not-think-of
 fill = A
 ipversion = 4
 pings = 5
 priority = 6
 size = 510
 timeout = 1
 tos = 0xa0
 udp = no
 waittime = 1

=head1 DESCRIPTION

See echoping(1) for details of the options below.

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item binary

The location of your echoping binary.

Default value: /usr/bin/echoping

=item forks

Run this many concurrent processes at maximum

Example value: 5

Default value: 5

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=back

Supported target-specific variables:

=over

=item extraopts

Any extra options specified here will be passed unmodified to echoping(1).

Example value: -some-letter-the-author-did-not-think-of

=item fill

The "-f" echoping(1) option.

Example value: A

=item ipversion

The IP protocol used. Possible values are "4" and "6". 
Passed to echoping(1) as the "-4" or "-6" options.

Example value: 4

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 5

=item priority

The "-p" echoping(1) option.

Example value: 6

=item size

The "-s" echoping(1) option.

Example value: 510

=item timeout

The "-t" echoping(1) option.

Example value: 1

Default value: 5

=item tos

The "-P" echoping(1) option.

Example value: 0xa0

=item udp

The "-u" echoping(1) option. Values other than '0' and 'no' enable UDP.

Example value: no

=item waittime

The "-w" echoping(1) option.

Example value: 1

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Niko Tyni <ntyni@iki.fi>

=head1 BUGS

Should we test the availability of the service at startup? After that it's
too late to complain.

The location of the echoping binary should probably be a global variable
instead of a probe-specific one. As things are, every EchoPing -derived probe 
has to declare it if the default (/usr/bin/echoping) isn't correct.

=head1 SEE ALSO

echoping(1), L<Smokeping::probes::EchoPingHttp> etc., L<http://echoping.sourceforge.net/>

=cut