=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::FPing6 - FPing6 Probe for SmokePing

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +FPing6

 binary = /usr/bin/fping6 # mandatory
 hostinterval = 1.5
 mininterval = 0.001
 offset = 50%
 packetsize = 5000
 pings = 20
 step = 300

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = FPing6 # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = FPing6 # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Integrates FPing6 as a probe into smokeping. This probe is derived from
FPing; the only difference is that the target host used for checking
the fping command output is ::1 instead of localhost.

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item binary

The location of your fping binary.

Example value: /usr/bin/fping6

This setting is mandatory.

=item hostinterval

The fping "-p" parameter, but in (possibly fractional) seconds rather than
milliseconds, for consistency with other Smokeping probes. From fping(1):

This parameter sets the time that fping  waits between successive packets
to an individual target.

Example value: 1.5

=item mininterval

The fping "-i" parameter, but in (probably fractional) seconds rather than
milliseconds, for consistency with other Smokeping probes. From fping(1):

The minimum amount of time between sending a ping packet to any target.

Example value: 0.001

Default value: 0.01

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item packetsize

The ping packet size (in the range of 12-64000 bytes).

Example value: 5000

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 20

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Tobias Oetiker <tobi@oetiker.ch>

Niko Tyni <ntyni@iki.fi>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Smokeping::probes::FPing>

=cut