=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::IOSPing - Cisco IOS Probe for SmokePing

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +IOSPing

 binary = /usr/bin/rsh # mandatory
 forks = 5
 offset = 50%
 packetsize = 56
 step = 300
 timeout = 15

 # The following variables can be overridden in each target section
 ioshost = my.cisco.router # mandatory
 iosint = Ethernet 1/0
 iosuser = admin
 pings = 5

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = IOSPing # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = IOSPing # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host
 ioshost = my.cisco.router # mandatory
 iosint = Ethernet 1/0
 iosuser = admin
 pings = 5

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Integrates Cisco IOS as a probe into smokeping.  Uses the rsh / remsh
protocol to run a ping from an IOS device.

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item binary

The binary option specifies the path of the binary to be used to
connect to the IOS device.  Commonly used binaries are /usr/bin/rsh
and /usr/bin/remsh, although any script or binary should work if can
be called as 

    /path/to/binary [ -l user ] router ping

to produce the IOS ping dialog on stdin & stdout.

Example value: /usr/bin/rsh

This setting is mandatory.

=item forks

Run this many concurrent processes at maximum

Example value: 5

Default value: 5

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item packetsize

The (optional) packetsize option lets you configure the packetsize for
the pings sent.

Default value: 56

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=item timeout

How long a single 'ping' takes at maximum

Example value: 15

Default value: 5

=back

Supported target-specific variables:

=over

=item ioshost

The ioshost option specifies the IOS device which should be used for
the ping.

Example value: my.cisco.router

This setting is mandatory.

=item iosint

The (optional) iosint option allows you to specify the source address
or interface in the IOS device. The value should be an IP address or
an interface name such as "Ethernet 1/0". If this option is omitted,
the IOS device will pick the IP address of the outbound interface to
use.

Example value: Ethernet 1/0

=item iosuser

The (optional) iosuser option allows you to specify the remote
username the IOS device.  If this option is omitted, the username
defaults to the default user used by the remsh command (usually the
user running the remsh command, ie the user running SmokePing).

Example value: admin

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 5

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Paul J Murphy <paul@murph.org>

based on L<Smokeping::probes::FPing|Smokeping::probes::FPing> by

Tobias Oetiker <tobi@oetiker.ch>

=head1 NOTES

=head2 IOS Configuration

The IOS device must have rsh enabled and an appropriate trust defined,
eg:

    !
    ip rcmd rsh-enable
    ip rcmd remote-host smoke 192.168.1.2 smoke enable
    !

Some IOS devices have a maximum of 5 VTYs available, so be careful not to 
hit a limit with the 'forks' variable.

=head2 Password authentication

It is not possible to use password authentication with rsh or remsh
due to fundamental limitations of the protocol.

=head2 Ping packet size

The FPing manpage has the following to say on the topic of ping packet
size:

Number of bytes of ping data to send.  The minimum size (normally 12)
allows room for the data that fping needs to do its work (sequence
number, timestamp).  The reported received data size includes the IP
header (normally 20 bytes) and ICMP header (8 bytes), so the minimum
total size is 40 bytes.  Default is 56, as in ping. Maximum is the
theoretical maximum IP datagram size (64K), though most systems limit
this to a smaller, system-dependent number.

=cut