=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::Radius - a RADIUS authentication probe for SmokePing

=head1 OVERVIEW

Measures RADIUS authentication latency for SmokePing

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +Radius

 forks = 5
 offset = 50%
 passwordfile = /some/place/secret
 secretfile = /another/place/secret
 step = 300

 # The following variables can be overridden in each target section
 mininterval = 1
 nas_ip_address = 10.1.2.3
 password = test-password
 pings = 5
 port = 1645
 secret = test-secret
 timeout = 5
 username = test-user # mandatory

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = Radius # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = Radius # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host
 mininterval = 1
 nas_ip_address = 10.1.2.3
 password = test-password
 pings = 5
 port = 1645
 secret = test-secret
 timeout = 5
 username = test-user # mandatory

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This probe measures RADIUS (RFC 2865) authentication latency for SmokePing.

The username to be tested is specified in either the probe-specific or the 
target-specific variable `username', with the target-specific one overriding
the probe-specific one.

The password can be specified either (in order of precedence, with
the latter overriding the former) in the probe-specific variable
`password', in an external file or in the target-specific variable
`password'.  The location of this file is given in the probe-specific
variable `passwordfile'. See Smokeping::probes::passwordchecker(3pm) for the
format of this file (summary: colon-separated triplets of the form
`<host>:<username>:<password>')

The RADIUS protocol requires a shared secret between the server and the client.
This secret can be specified either (in order of precedence, with the latter
overriding the former) in the probe-specific variable `secret', in an external file
or in the target-specific variable `secret'.
This external file is located by the probe-specific variable `secretfile', and it should
contain whitespace-separated pairs of the form `<host> <secret>'. Comments and blank lines
are OK.

If the optional probe-specific variable `nas_ip_address' is specified, its
value is inserted into the authentication requests as the `NAS-IP-Address'
RADIUS attribute.

The probe tries to be nice to the server and does not send authentication
requests more frequently than once every X seconds, where X is the value
of the target-specific "min_interval" variable (1 by default).

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item forks

Run this many concurrent processes at maximum

Example value: 5

Default value: 5

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item passwordfile

Location of the file containing usernames and passwords.

Example value: /some/place/secret

=item secretfile

A file containing the RADIUS shared secrets for the targets. It should contain
whitespace-separated pairs of the form `<host> <secret>'. Comments and blank lines
are OK.

Example value: /another/place/secret

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=back

Supported target-specific variables:

=over

=item mininterval

The minimum interval between each authentication request sent, in (possibly fractional) seconds.

Default value: 1

=item nas_ip_address

The NAS-IP-Address RADIUS attribute for the authentication requests. Not needed everywhere.

Example value: 10.1.2.3

=item password

The password for the user, if not present in the password file.

Example value: test-password

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 5

=item port

The RADIUS port to be used

Example value: 1645

=item secret

The RADIUS shared secret for the target, if not present in the secrets file.

Example value: test-secret

=item timeout

Timeout in seconds for the RADIUS queries.

Default value: 5

=item username

The username to be tested.

Example value: test-user

This setting is mandatory.

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Niko Tyni <ntyni@iki.fi>

=head1 BUGS

There should be a more general way of specifying RADIUS attributes.

=cut