=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::SSH - Secure Shell Probe for SmokePing

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +SSH

 binary = /usr/bin/ssh-keyscan # mandatory
 forks = 5
 offset = 50%
 step = 300
 timeout = 15

 # The following variables can be overridden in each target section
 pings = 5

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = SSH # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = SSH # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host
 pings = 5

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Integrates ssh-keyscan as a probe into smokeping. The variable B<binary> must
point to your copy of the ssh-keyscan program. If it is not installed on
your system yet, you should install openssh >= 3.8p1

The Probe asks the given host n-times for it's public key. Where n is
the amount specified in the config File.

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item binary

The location of your ssh-keyscan binary.

Example value: /usr/bin/ssh-keyscan

This setting is mandatory.

=item forks

Run this many concurrent processes at maximum

Example value: 5

Default value: 5

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=item timeout

How long a single 'ping' takes at maximum

Example value: 15

Default value: 5

=back

Supported target-specific variables:

=over

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 5

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Christian Recktenwald <smokeping-contact@citecs.de>

=cut