=head1 NAME

Smokeping::probes::WebProxyFilter - tests webproxy filter performance and function.

=head1 OVERVIEW

This probe tests if your filtering webproxy is working properly. Drawing from
a list of forbidden websites, it tries to establish a connection to
each one of them and registers a 'loss' when it suceeeds.

If you want to test availability of a website, use the EchoPingHttp probe.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 *** Probes ***

 +WebProxyFilter

 forks = 5
 maxsize = 2000
 min_interval = 0.1
 offset = 50%
 step = 300
 timeout = 15
 useragent = SmokePing/2.x (WebProxyFilter Probe)

 # The following variables can be overridden in each target section
 deny_re = Access Prohibited
 more_hosts = www.playboy.com, www.our-competition.com
 pings = 5
 timeout = 2

 # [...]

 *** Targets ***

 probe = WebProxyFilter # if this should be the default probe

 # [...]

 + mytarget
 # probe = WebProxyFilter # if the default probe is something else
 host = my.host
 deny_re = Access Prohibited
 more_hosts = www.playboy.com, www.our-competition.com
 pings = 5
 timeout = 2

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The probe uses the LWP::UserAgent module to retreive a series of wepages. It
expects to get the firewalls 'site-prohibited' page. Any other response (or
a real loss) gets logged as a loss and can be used to trigger an alarm.

The probe tries to be nice to the firewall and waits at least X seconds
between starting filetransfers, where X is the value of the probe 
specific `min_interval' variable (1 by default).

Many variables can be specified either in the probe or in the target definition,
the target-specific variable will override the prove-specific variable.

=head1 VARIABLES

Supported probe-specific variables:

=over

=item forks

Run this many concurrent processes at maximum

Example value: 5

Default value: 5

=item maxsize

How much of the webpage should be retreived.

Default value: 2000

=item min_interval

The minimum interval between each starting GETs in seconds.

Example value: 0.1

Default value: 1

=item offset

If you run many probes concurrently you may want to prevent them from
hitting your network all at the same time. Using the probe-specific
offset parameter you can change the point in time when each probe will
be run. Offset is specified in % of total interval, or alternatively as
'random', and the offset from the 'General' section is used if nothing
is specified here. Note that this does NOT influence the rrds itself,
it is just a matter of when data acqusition is initiated.
(This variable is only applicable if the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set
in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 50%

=item step

Duration of the base interval that this probe should use, if different
from the one specified in the 'Database' section. Note that the step in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change the step parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them. (This variable is only applicable if
the variable 'concurrentprobes' is set in the 'General' section.)

Example value: 300

=item timeout

How long a single 'ping' takes at maximum

Example value: 15

Default value: 5

=item useragent

The web browser we claim to be, just in case the FW is interested

Default value: SmokePing/2.x (WebProxyFilter Probe)

=back

Supported target-specific variables:

=over

=item deny_re

Regular expression, matching the 'deny' response from the firewall

Example value: Access Prohibited

=item more_hosts

A comma separated list of banned websites to test in addition to the one
specified in the I<host> variable. The websites will be tested one after the
other in one round, this means that while normal probes do run the same test
serveral times in a row, this one will alter the webpage with each round.
The reason for this is, that eventhough we try to retreive remote webpages,
the answer will come from the firewall everytime, so we kill two birds in
one go. First we test the firewalls latency and second we make sure its
filter works properly.

Example value: www.playboy.com, www.our-competition.com

=item pings

How many pings should be sent to each target, if different from the global
value specified in the Database section. Note that the number of pings in
the RRD files is fixed when they are originally generated, and if you
change this parameter afterwards, you'll have to delete the old RRD
files or somehow convert them.

Example value: 5

=item timeout

Timeout in seconds for the test complete.

Example value: 2

Default value: 2

=back


=head1 AUTHORS

Tobias Oetiker <tobi@oetiker.ch> sponsored by Virtela

=head1 BUGS

This probe is somewhat unortodox, since it regards the sucessful retrieval
of a banned webpage as a loss.

=cut